---
title: Three years in search of exposure, experiences and knowledge
// tags: London, experiences
---

Back in 2007, while I was finishing my studies, I wanted to do **something meaningful as my final degree project**, I was lucky enough to get to know someone that created a game to be played by email, the truth was that it was great: **good complexity level, deep historical setting, pretty social component, and turn based**. But there were a problem, they couldn't play more than three consecutive rounds because of the amount of effort the organizer had to invest to produce the turn resolution. Naive enough, **I offered myself to create the application** and use it as my project.

With the collaboration of my university colleague [Beni](https://twitter.com/b3nit), we started this endeavour without being really sure about how we were going to execute it, so at the end we did what we learned at university, yes you got it right, **waterfall**. We wrote dozens of use cases, UML diagrams and we started the development using [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) framework... until it got transformed into a **big ball of mud** and every new task became a real challenge. In addition, shortly after we started I got an offer to work as a web developer for an startup, situation that further reduced the amount of time I could invest on it.

After 4 years, the game was not even remotely near to its end, **I was stagnated at my job and lethargic in the comfort zone**. Around that time a friend, who was working in London, decided to go to the **[PHP Barcelona Conference](http://phpconference.es/) 2011**, I don't recall the reason I didn't go with him, but, when we met afterwards he explained me how it was and he introduced me to the [Symfony](https://symfony.com/) framework so I started to play with it.

Some months later **I was made redundant for economical reasons**, so I decided to do freelance work. Short time after, my friend told me about the [PHP UK conference](http://phpconference.co.uk/) 2012 so I decided **it was time to jump out of the comfort zone**, I went to London for a couple of months during which: I attended to the conference and several technical talks, I enrolled to a school of English and discovered [London On Board](http://www.meetup.com/londononboard/). I must admit **it was the best decision I could ever have made**, but I had to finish my studies, so I went back to Spain and changed my project for something easier and quicker. That very same December I got a one way ticket to London and after a handful of interviews **I managed to get a job** (I might write about the experience if people are interested).


It wasn't until recently when I came across with the article **["The unfair truth about how creative people really succeed"](https://medium.com/hackerpreneur-magazine/the-unfair-truth-about-how-creative-people-really-succeed-f61afb6f2f09)** and I think it perfectly describes what I have been trying to do during these almost three years living in London.

The decision of moving out enabled me to be in **contact with a thriving development community** that has widely expanded my expertise in the field. I got a **golden opportunity to master my craft** by: attending to technicals talk and conferences, following on Twitter relevant community members, reading book suggestions from them and of course through my day to day job, although the truth is that there are always plenty of new stuff to learn. Furthermore, thanks to my love to board games, I had the chance of playing to new games and learn mechanics I could reintroduce into the project.

On a personal level, I got to know a lot of amazing people from different nationalities and backgrounds, that have widen out the way I see the world, and as a result, I made some valuable friendships I wish to keep in the future. 

After all this time **I think I am ready to tackle the game again**, but this time I have with me more experience, an execution plan and an influencers network I wish to get feedback from, fact that hopefully will allow me to improve and refine it with the **ultimate goal of earn their validation**. Those are the reasons I have decided to **go back to Spain** and devote myself not just to develop the game but also to keep extending my network, attend to as many meetings as possible, expose my ideas, gather feedback and give back to the community as much as I can along the way.   

Thank you all for enabling me to make this possible, thanks to those that will stay by my side during this endeavor and thanks to all the people the future will bring across my path. I pretend to keep you all up to date from this site.
